datasets/types/timeseries.mdx, before:

---
title: Timeseries
description: Timeseries datasets link each data point to a specific point in time.
icon: diamonds-4
---

Each timeseries dataset comes with a set of required and auto-generated fields for each data point.

## Required fields

While the specific data fields between different time series datasets can vary, there are common fields that all time series datasets share.

<ParamField path="time" type="Timestamp">
  The timestamp associated with each data point. Timestamps are always in UTC.
</ParamField>

<Tip>
  For indexing and querying, Tilebox truncates timestamps to millisecond precision. But Timeseries datasets may contain arbitrary custom `Timestamp` fields that store timestamps up to a nanosecond precision.
</Tip>

## Auto-generated fields

<ParamField path="id" type="UUID">
  A [universally unique identifier (UUID)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) that uniquely identifies each data point. IDs are generated so that sorting them lexicographically also sorts them by time.
</ParamField>

<Tip>
    IDs generated by Tilebox are deterministic, meaning that ingesting the exact same data values into the same collection will always result in the same ID.
</Tip>

<ParamField path="ingestion_time" type="Timestamp">
  The time the data point was ingested into the Tilebox API.
</ParamField>

## Creating a timeseries dataset

To create a timeseries dataset, use the [Tilebox Console](/console) and select `Timeseries Dataset` as the dataset type. The required and auto-generated fields
already outlined will be automatically added to the dataset schema.

## Time-based queries

Timeseries datasets support time-based queries. To query a specific time interval, specify a time range when [querying data](/datasets/query/filter-by-time) from a collection.

Commit message:

Update docs description fields
For better SEO
Bing Webmaster Tools let us know our descriptions aren't descriptive
enough and should be between 150 and 160 characters long

datasets/types/timeseries.mdx, after:

---
title: Timeseries
description: Explore timeseries datasets in Tilebox that link data points to specific timestamps, with auto-generated UUIDs, time-based queries, and custom fields.
icon: diamonds-4
---

Each timeseries dataset comes with a set of required and auto-generated fields for each data point.

## Required fields

While the specific data fields between different time series datasets can vary, there are common fields that all time series datasets share.

<ParamField path="time" type="Timestamp">
  The timestamp associated with each data point. Timestamps are always in UTC.
</ParamField>

<Tip>
  For indexing and querying, Tilebox truncates timestamps to millisecond precision. But Timeseries datasets may contain arbitrary custom `Timestamp` fields that store timestamps up to a nanosecond precision.
</Tip>

## Auto-generated fields

<ParamField path="id" type="UUID">
  A [universally unique identifier (UUID)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) that uniquely identifies each data point. IDs are generated so that sorting them lexicographically also sorts them by time.
</ParamField>

<Tip>
    IDs generated by Tilebox are deterministic, meaning that ingesting the exact same data values into the same collection will always result in the same ID.
</Tip>

<ParamField path="ingestion_time" type="Timestamp">
  The time the data point was ingested into the Tilebox API.
</ParamField>

## Creating a timeseries dataset

To create a timeseries dataset, use the [Tilebox Console](/console) and select `Timeseries Dataset` as the dataset type. The required and auto-generated fields
already outlined will be automatically added to the dataset schema.

## Time-based queries

Timeseries datasets support time-based queries. To query a specific time interval, specify a time range when [querying data](/datasets/query/filter-by-time) from a collection.
