ai-assistance.mdx, before:

---
title: AI Assistance
description: Large Language Models (LLMs) are powerful tools for exploring and learning about Tilebox. This section explains how to provide them with Tilebox-specific context for tailored, relevant and up-to-date responses.
icon: brain-circuit
---

## Providing Tilebox-specific context

AI assistants and Large Language Models (LLMs) can answer questions, guide you in using Tilebox, suggest relevant sections in the documentation, and assist you in creating workflows.

<Card title="Download documentation for LLMs" icon="brain-circuit" href="https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt" horizontal>
Download the complete Tilebox documentation as a plain text file to share with your AI assistant or language model.
</Card>

The full content of the Tilebox documentation is available in plain markdown format at [https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt](https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt). Upload this document to your AI assistant or LLM to provide it with Tilebox-specific context.

<Tip>
The [Documentation Context](https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt) is updated whenever the documentation changes. If you download the file, refresh it occasionally to stay up-to-date.
</Tip>

## Example prompt

After you upload the [Documentation Context](https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt) to your AI assistant or LLM, you can ask it questions and receive tailored, up-to-date responses.

Here's an example prompt to get you started.

```plaintext Example prompt
Generate a script that

- Creates a cluster
- Configures console logging
- Contains a Fibonacci calculator workflow that is using a local filesystem cache.
  Make sure you get task dependencies right.
  Make sure to only print the final result as the last step of the workflow.
  Write logs to let us know what is happening.
- Submits a job for the number 7
- Starts a processing runner

Do not invent APIs. All available Tilebox APIs are documented.
```

## Claude

[Claude 3.5 Sonnet](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/about-claude/models) is a great choice for an AI assistant for using Tilebox. To provide Claude with Tilebox-specific context, create a [new project](https://support.anthropic.com/en/articles/9517075-what-are-projects), and upload the [llms-full.txt](https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt) as project knowledge. You can then ask questions or use it to generate scripts.

## ChatGPT

Experiments with [GPT-4o](https://chatgpt.com/?model=gpt-4o) have shown mixed results. While it effectively answers questions, it has difficulties generating workflow scripts, often misapplying or inventing APIs. Consider using [Claude 3.5 Sonnet](#claude) for a better experience.

Commit message:

Document Tilebox Docs MCP server

ai-assistance.mdx, after:

---
title: AI Assistance
description: Large Language Models (LLMs) are powerful tools for exploring and learning about Tilebox. This section explains how to provide them with Tilebox-specific context for tailored, relevant and up-to-date responses.
icon: brain-circuit
---

## Providing complete Tilebox context

AI assistants and Large Language Models (LLMs) can answer questions, guide you in using Tilebox, suggest relevant sections in the documentation, and assist you in creating workflows.

<Card title="Download documentation for LLMs" icon="brain-circuit" href="https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt" horizontal>
Download the complete Tilebox documentation as a plain text file to share with your AI assistant or language model.
</Card>

The full content of the Tilebox documentation is available in plain markdown format at [https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt](https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt). Upload this document to your AI assistant or LLM to provide it with Tilebox-specific context.

<Tip>
The [Documentation Context](https://docs.tilebox.com/llms-full.txt) is updated whenever the documentation changes. If you download the file, refresh it occasionally to stay up-to-date.
</Tip>

## Providing tailored context via MCP

Tilebox Docs can be installed as an MCP tool, so an MCP client can ask for detailed context on specific topics.

Run the following command to generate an MCP server for Tilebox Docs.

```bash
npx mint-mcp add tilebox
```

The command line tool will guide you along the installation process for Cursor, Windsurf, Claude Code, Augment Code or other MCP clients.

<Tip>
The MCP server always retrieves the most up to date version of the documentation.
</Tip>
