authentication.mdx, before:

---
title: Authentication
description: To access the Tilebox API, you must authenticate your requests. This guide explains how authentication works, focusing on API keys used as bearer tokens.
icon: key
---

## Creating an API key

To create an API key, log into the [Tilebox Console](https://console.tilebox.com). Navigate to [Account -> API Keys](https://console.tilebox.com/account/api-keys) and click the "Create API Key" button.

<Info>
Keep your API keys secure. Deactivate any keys if you suspect they have been compromised.
</Info>

## Bearer token authentication

The Tilebox API uses bearer tokens for authentication. You need to pass your API key as the `token` parameter when creating an instance of the client.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from tilebox.datasets import Client as DatasetsClient
from tilebox.workflows import Client as WorkflowsClient

datasets_client = DatasetsClient(token="YOUR_TILEBOX_API_KEY")
workflows_client = WorkflowsClient(token="YOUR_TILEBOX_API_KEY")
```
</CodeGroup>

<Tip>
If you set your API key as an environment variable named `TILEBOX_API_KEY`, you can skip the token parameter when creating a client.
</Tip>

Commit message:

Add Go snippets for datasets

authentication.mdx, after:

---
title: Authentication
description: To access the Tilebox API, you must authenticate your requests. This guide explains how authentication works, focusing on API keys used as bearer tokens.
icon: key
---

## Creating an API key

To create an API key, log into the [Tilebox Console](https://console.tilebox.com). Navigate to [Account -> API Keys](https://console.tilebox.com/account/api-keys) and click the "Create API Key" button.

<Info>
Keep your API keys secure. Deactivate any keys if you suspect they have been compromised.
</Info>

## Bearer token authentication

The Tilebox API uses bearer tokens for authentication. You need to pass your API key as the `token` parameter when creating an instance of the client.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from tilebox.datasets import Client as DatasetsClient
from tilebox.workflows import Client as WorkflowsClient

datasets_client = DatasetsClient(token="YOUR_TILEBOX_API_KEY")
workflows_client = WorkflowsClient(token="YOUR_TILEBOX_API_KEY")
```
```go Go
import (
	"os"

	"github.com/tilebox/tilebox-go/datasets/v1"
	"github.com/tilebox/tilebox-go/workflows/v1"
)

datasetsClient := datasets.NewClient(
	datasets.WithAPIKey(os.Getenv("TILEBOX_API_KEY")),
)
workflowsClient := workflows.NewClient(
	workflows.WithAPIKey(os.Getenv("TILEBOX_API_KEY")),
)
```
</CodeGroup>

<Tip>
In Python, if you set your API key as an environment variable named `TILEBOX_API_KEY`, you can skip the token parameter when creating a client.
</Tip>
