introduction.mdx, before:

---
title: Tilebox
sidebarTitle: Introduction
description: "The Solar System's #1 developer tool for space data management"
icon: house
mode: wide
'og:title': "Tilebox Docs"
---

import { HeroCard } from '/snippets/components.mdx';

Tilebox is a space data native distributed computing tool. Through an abstraction framework, Tilebox streamlines space data access, processing, and distribution across environments enabling efficient multi-language, multi-cluster workflows. It works within your existing infrastructure, ensuring customers retain full data and algorithm control.

## Modules

Tilebox currently consists of two main modules:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <HeroCard
    title="Datasets"
    description="A data access module with upstream integrations to space service providers that gives instant data access to scientists through high-performance APIs and an intuitive Python client."
    href="/datasets/introduction"
  >
    <img src="/assets/tilebox-datasets-hero.svg" alt="Datasets" />
  </HeroCard>
  <HeroCard
    title="Workflows"
    description="A parallel processing engine that allows the intuitive reaction of dynamic tasks that can be parallelized out of the box and executed across compute environments - on-premise as well as in auto-scaling clusters in public clouds."
    href="/workflows/introduction"
  >
    <img src="/assets/tilebox-workflows-hero.svg" alt="Workflows" />
  </HeroCard>
</CardGroup>

## Getting Started

To get started, check out some of the following resources:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Tilebox Console"
    icon="terminal"
    href="/console"
    horizontal
  />
  <Card
    title="Create an API Key"
    icon="key"
    href="/authentication"
    horizontal
  />
  <Card
    title="Quickstart"
    icon="rocket"
    href="/quickstart"
    horizontal
  />
</CardGroup>

## Guides

Or start by exploring some of the following guides:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Timeseries Datasets"
    icon="database"
    href="/datasets/introduction"
  >
    Read about time-series datasets and how they are structured.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Loading Data"
    icon="download"
    href="/datasets/loading-data"
  >
    Learn how to query and load data from a dataset.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Create Tasks"
    icon="laptop-code"
    href="/workflows/concepts/tasks"
  >
    Understand and learn how to create tasks using the Tilebox Workflow Orchestrator.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Setting up Task Runners"
    icon="circle-nodes"
    href="/workflows/concepts/task-runners">
    Learn how to deploy Task runners, enabling you to run workflows in a parallelized, distributed fashion.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

Documentation content overhaul (#29)
* AI editing of introduction and getting started pages

* Update API-reference

* Remove code reference

* Improve SDK pages

* Move api reference pages to package names

* Improve dataset pages

* Improve workflows pages

introduction.mdx, after:

---
title: Tilebox
sidebarTitle: Introduction
description: "The Solar System's #1 developer tool for space data management"
icon: house
mode: wide
'og:title': "Tilebox Docs"
---

import { HeroCard } from '/snippets/components.mdx';

Tilebox is a space data native distributed computing tool. It provides a framework that simplifies access, processing, and distribution of space data across different environments enabling efficient multi-language, multi-cluster workflows. Tilebox integrates seamlessly with your existing infrastructure, ensuring that you maintain complete control over your data and algorithms.

## Modules

Tilebox consists of two primary modules:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <HeroCard
    title="Datasets"
    description="A data access module with upstream integrations to space service providers, enabling instant data access for scientists through high-performance APIs and easy-to-use client SDKs."
    href="/datasets/introduction"
  >
    <img src="/assets/tilebox-datasets-hero.svg" alt="Datasets" />
  </HeroCard>
  <HeroCard
    title="Workflows"
    description="A parallel processing engine that offers intuitive creation of dynamic tasks as code, supporting effortless parallel execution across various compute environments, including on-premise and auto-scaling public cloud clusters."
    href="/workflows/introduction"
  >
    <img src="/assets/tilebox-workflows-hero.svg" alt="Workflows" />
  </HeroCard>
</CardGroup>

## Getting Started

To get started, check out some of the following resources:

<CardGroup cols={3}>
  <Card
    title="Tilebox Console"
    icon="terminal"
    href="/console"
    horizontal
  />
  <Card
    title="Create an API Key"
    icon="key"
    href="/authentication"
    horizontal
  />
  <Card
    title="Quickstart"
    icon="rocket"
    href="/quickstart"
    horizontal
  />
</CardGroup>

## Guides

You can also start by looking through these guides:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
  <Card
    title="Timeseries Datasets"
    icon="database"
    href="/datasets/introduction"
  >
    Learn about time-series datasets and their structure.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Loading Data"
    icon="download"
    href="/datasets/loading-data"
  >
    Discover how to query and load data from a dataset.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Create Tasks"
    icon="laptop-code"
    href="/workflows/concepts/tasks"
  >
    Gain a deeper understanding of how to create tasks using the Tilebox Workflow Orchestrator.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Setting up Task Runners"
    icon="circle-nodes"
    href="/workflows/concepts/task-runners">
    Find out how to deploy Task Runners to run workflows in a parallel, distributed manner.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
