api-reference/storage-providers/creating-storage-client.mdx, before:

---
title: Creating a Storage Client
description: How to create a storage client
icon: database
---

You can create a cached storage client by importing the respective class and instantiating it.

<RequestExample>

```python Python (Sync)
from pathlib import Path
from tilebox.storage import ASFStorageClient
# or UmbraStorageClient
# or CopernicusStorageClient

storage_client = ASFStorageClient(
    "ASF_USERNAME", "ASF_PASSWORD",
    cache_directory=Path("./data")
)
```

```python Python (Async)
from pathlib import Path
from tilebox.storage.aio import ASFStorageClient
# or UmbraStorageClient
# or CopernicusStorageClient

storage_client = ASFStorageClient(
    "ASF_USERNAME", "ASF_PASSWORD",
    cache_directory=Path("./data")
)
```

</RequestExample>

## Parameters

<ParamField path="user" type="str">
  The username for the storage provider.
</ParamField>
<ParamField path="password" type="str">
  The password for the storage provider.
</ParamField>
<ParamField path="cache_directory" type="Path">
  Path to the local directory where data should be cached. The directory is created if it doesn't exist. Defaults to
  `~/.cache/tilebox`.
</ParamField>

Commit message:

Use mintlify components and fix all code snippets (#8)
* Add dataset icons

* Improve by using existing components

* Add sample code for open data

* Update code snippets and output

* add .nc as lfs

* fix asset link

api-reference/storage-providers/creating-storage-client.mdx, after:

---
title: Creating a Storage Client
description: How to create a storage client
icon: database
---

You can create a cached storage client by importing the respective class and instantiating it.

For a complete example look at the [Accessing Open Data](/datasets/open-data#sample-code) section.

<RequestExample>

```python Python (Sync)
from pathlib import Path
from tilebox.storage import ASFStorageClient
# or UmbraStorageClient
# or CopernicusStorageClient

storage_client = ASFStorageClient(
    "ASF_USERNAME", "ASF_PASSWORD",
    cache_directory=Path("./data")
)
```

```python Python (Async)
from pathlib import Path
from tilebox.storage.aio import ASFStorageClient
# or UmbraStorageClient
# or CopernicusStorageClient

storage_client = ASFStorageClient(
    "ASF_USERNAME", "ASF_PASSWORD",
    cache_directory=Path("./data")
)
```

</RequestExample>

## Parameters

<ParamField path="user" type="str">
  The username for the storage provider.
</ParamField>
<ParamField path="password" type="str">
  The password for the storage provider.
</ParamField>
<ParamField path="cache_directory" type="Path">
  Path to the local directory where data should be cached. The directory is created if it doesn't exist. Defaults to
  `~/.cache/tilebox`.
</ParamField>
