sdks/python/sample-notebooks.mdx, before:

---
title: Sample notebooks
description: Sample code maintained to use and learn from.
icon: notebook
---

To quickly become familiar with the Python client, you can explore some sample notebooks. Each notebook can be executed standalone from top to bottom.

## Sample notebooks

You can access the sample notebooks on [<Icon icon="google-drive" /> Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I7G35LLeB2SmKQJFsyhpSVNyZK9uOeJt).

<Tip>
  Right click a notebook in Google Drive and select `Open with -> Google Colaboratory` to open it directly in the browser using [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/).
</Tip>

### Notebook overview


<AccordionGroup>
  {/*<Accordion title="Tilebox ERS Opendata Demo">
    This notebook demonstrates how to use the Python client to query metadata from the ERS-SAR Opendata dataset. It shows how to filter results by geographical location and download product data for a specific granule.

    [<Icon icon="arrow-up-right-from-square" /> Open in
    Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1LTYhLKy8m9psMhu0DvANs7hyS3ViVpas)

  </Accordion>*/}
  <Accordion title="Tilebox S5P Tropomi Methane Data Access">
    This notebook illustrates how to use the Python client to query the S5P Tropomi Opendata dataset for methane products. It also explains how to filter results based on geographical location and download product data for a specific granule.

    [<Icon icon="arrow-up-right-from-square" /> Open in
    Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1eVYARNFnTIeQqBs6gqeay01EDvRk2EI4)

  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="MODIS-based Custom Dataset Ingestion Demo">
    This notebook demonstrates how to ingest data into a Custom Dataset. In this case we are using a sample dataset from the [MODIS instrument](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd12q1v006/) which
    we have prepared.

    [<Icon icon="arrow-up-right-from-square" /> Open in
    Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1QS-srlWPMJg4csc0ycn36yCX9U6mvIpW)

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

Execute cells one by one using `Shift+Enter`. Most commonly used libraries are pre-installed.

<Note>All demo notebooks require Python 3.10 or higher.</Note>

## Interactive environments

Jupyter, Google Colab, and JetBrains Datalore are interactive environments that simplify the development and sharing of algorithmic code. They allow users to work with notebooks, which combine code and rich text elements like figures, links, and equations. Notebooks require no setup and can be easily shared.

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Jupyter">
    [Jupyter notebooks](https://jupyter.org/) are the original interactive environment for Python. They are useful but require local installation.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Google Colab">
    [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/) is a free tool that provides a hosted interactive Python environment. It easily connects to local Jupyter instances and allows code sharing using Google credentials or within organizations using Google Workspace.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="JetBrains Datalore">
    [JetBrains Datalore](https://datalore.jetbrains.com/) is a free platform for collaborative testing, development, and sharing of Python code and algorithms. It has built-in secret management for storing credentials. Datalore also features advanced JetBrains syntax highlighting and autocompletion. Currently, it only supports Python 3.8, which is not compatible with the Tilebox Python client.
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

Since Colab is a hosted free tool that meets all requirements, including Python ≥3.10, it's recommended for use.

## Installing packages

Within your interactive environment, you can install missing packages using pip in "magic" cells, which start with an exclamation mark.

```bash
# pip is already installed in your interactive environment
!pip3 install ....
```

All APIs or commands that require authentication can be accessed through client libraries that hide tokens, allowing notebooks to be shared without exposing personal credentials.

## Executing code

Execute code by clicking the play button in the top left corner of the cell or by pressing `Shift + Enter`. While the code is running, a spinning icon appears. When the execution finishes, the icon changes to a number, indicating the order of execution. The output displays below the code.

## Authorization

When sharing notebooks, avoid directly sharing your Tilebox API key. Instead, use one of two methods to authenticate the Tilebox Python client in interactive environments: through environment variables or interactively.

```python Using environment variables to store your API key
# Define an environment variable "TILEBOX_API_KEY" that contains your API key
import os
token = os.getenv("TILEBOX_API_KEY")
```

**Interactive** authorization is possible using the built-in `getpass` module. This prompts the user for the API key when running the code, storing it in memory without sharing it when the notebook is shared.

```python Interactively providing your API key
from getpass import getpass
token = getpass("API key:")
```

Commit message:

Add Go docs (#44)
* Add Go docs

* address comments

* Add Go datasets api reference

* Add Go workflows api reference

* Add Go snippets for Workflows

* Add Go snippets for datasets

* add spatio-temporal

* lint

* Address comments

sdks/python/sample-notebooks.mdx, after:

---
title: Sample notebooks
description: Sample code maintained to use and learn from.
icon: notebook
---

To quickly become familiar with the Python client, you can explore some sample notebooks. Each notebook can be executed standalone from top to bottom.

## Sample notebooks

You can access the sample notebooks on [<Icon icon="google-drive" /> Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1I7G35LLeB2SmKQJFsyhpSVNyZK9uOeJt).

<Tip>
  Right click a notebook in Google Drive and select `Open with -> Google Colaboratory` to open it directly in the browser using [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/).
</Tip>

More examples can be found throughout the docs.

### Notebook overview

<AccordionGroup>
  {/*<Accordion title="Tilebox ERS Opendata Demo">
    This notebook demonstrates how to use the Python client to query metadata from the ERS-SAR Opendata dataset. It shows how to filter results by geographical location and download product data for a specific granule.

    [<Icon icon="arrow-up-right-from-square" /> Open in
    Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1LTYhLKy8m9psMhu0DvANs7hyS3ViVpas)

  </Accordion>*/}
  <Accordion title="Tilebox S5P Tropomi Methane Data Access">
    This notebook illustrates how to use the Python client to query the S5P Tropomi Opendata dataset for methane products. It also explains how to filter results based on geographical location and download product data for a specific granule.

    [<Icon icon="arrow-up-right-from-square" /> Open in
    Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1eVYARNFnTIeQqBs6gqeay01EDvRk2EI4)

  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="MODIS-based Custom Dataset Ingestion Demo">
    This notebook demonstrates how to ingest data into a Custom Dataset. In this case it's using a sample dataset from the [MODIS instrument](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/mcd12q1v006/) which
    is already prepared.

    [<Icon icon="arrow-up-right-from-square" /> Open in
    Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1QS-srlWPMJg4csc0ycn36yCX9U6mvIpW)

  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

Execute cells one by one using `Shift+Enter`. Most commonly used libraries are pre-installed.

<Note>All demo notebooks require Python 3.10 or higher.</Note>

## Interactive environments

Jupyter, Google Colab, and JetBrains Datalore are interactive environments that simplify the development and sharing of algorithmic code. They allow users to work with notebooks, which combine code and rich text elements like figures, links, and equations. Notebooks require no setup and can be easily shared.

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Jupyter">
    [Jupyter notebooks](https://jupyter.org/) are the original interactive environment for Python. They are useful but require local installation.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Google Colab">
    [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/) is a free tool that provides a hosted interactive Python environment. It easily connects to local Jupyter instances and allows code sharing using Google credentials or within organizations using Google Workspace.
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="JetBrains Datalore">
    [JetBrains Datalore](https://datalore.jetbrains.com/) is a free platform for collaborative testing, development, and sharing of Python code and algorithms. It has built-in secret management for storing credentials. Datalore also features advanced JetBrains syntax highlighting and autocompletion. Currently, it only supports Python 3.8, which is not compatible with the Tilebox Python client.
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

Since Colab is a hosted free tool that meets all requirements, including Python ≥3.10, it's recommended for use.

## Installing packages

Within your interactive environment, you can install missing packages using pip in "magic" cells, which start with an exclamation mark.

```bash
# pip is already installed in your interactive environment
!pip3 install ....
```

All APIs or commands that require authentication can be accessed through client libraries that hide tokens, allowing notebooks to be shared without exposing personal credentials.

## Executing code

Execute code by clicking the play button in the top left corner of the cell or by pressing `Shift + Enter`. While the code is running, a spinning icon appears. When the execution finishes, the icon changes to a number, indicating the order of execution. The output displays below the code.

## Authorization

When sharing notebooks, avoid directly sharing your Tilebox API key. Instead, use one of two methods to authenticate the Tilebox Python client in interactive environments: through environment variables or interactively.

```python Using environment variables to store your API key
# Define an environment variable "TILEBOX_API_KEY" that contains your API key
import os
token = os.getenv("TILEBOX_API_KEY")
```

**Interactive** authorization is possible using the built-in `getpass` module. This prompts the user for the API key when running the code, storing it in memory without sharing it when the notebook is shared.

```python Interactively providing your API key
from getpass import getpass
token = getpass("API key:")
```
