datasets/query/filter-by-location.mdx, before:

---
title: Filtering by a location
sidebarTitle: Filter by location
description: Learn how to filter your query results by an area of interest specified as certain geographical extent.
icon: globe-pointer
---

<Tip>
    Check out the [best practices for handling geometries](/datasets/geometries) to learn more about the different aspects to consider when working with geometries, including antimeridian crossings and pole coverings.
</Tip>

When querying, you can specify arbitrary geometries as an area of interest to filter by. Tilebox currently supports
`Polygon` and `MultiPolygon` geometries as query filters.

## Filtering by an area of interest

To filter by an area of interest, use either a `Polygon` or `MultiPolygon` geometry as the spatial extent parameter.

Here is how to query Sentinel-2 `S2A_S2MSI2A` data over Colorado for a certain day in April 2025.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from shapely import Polygon
from tilebox.datasets import Client

area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

client = Client()
sentinel2_msi = client.dataset("open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi")
collection = sentinel2_msi.collection("S2A_S2MSI2A")
data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-02", "2025-04-03"),
    spatial_extent=area,
)
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

ctx := context.Background()
client := datasets.NewClient()

dataset, err := client.Datasets.Get(ctx, "open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to get dataset: %v", err)
}

collection, err := client.Collections.Get(ctx, dataset.ID, "S2A_S2MSI2A")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to get collection: %v", err)
}

var datapoints []*v1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtent(area),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

## Intersection mode

By default, the query will return all datapoints that intersect with the specified geometry.
For certain use cases you might want to change this behavior and only return datapoints that are fully contained within the specified geometry.
Tilebox supports this behavior by specifying a mode for the spatial filter.

<Columns cols={2}>
    <Frame caption="mode: intersects">
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/intersection-mode-intersects-light.png" alt="Query results with intersects mode" className="dark:hidden" />
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/intersection-mode-intersects-dark.png" alt="Query results with intersects mode" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
    <Frame caption="mode: contains">
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/intersection-mode-contains-light.png" alt="Query results with contains mode" className="dark:hidden" />
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/intersection-mode-contains-dark.png" alt="Query results with contains mode" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
</Columns>

### Intersects

The `intersects` mode is the default behavior of spatial queries. It matches all datapoints with geometries that intersect with the query geometry.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-02", "2025-04-03"),
    # intersects is the default, so can also be omitted entirely
    spatial_extent={"geometry": area, "mode": "intersects"},
)
print(f"There are {data.sizes['time']} Sentinel-2A granules intersecting the area of Colorado on April 2nd, 2025")
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

var datapoints []*examplesv1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtentFilter(&query.SpatialFilter{
        Geometry: area,
        // intersects is the default, so can also be omitted entirely
        Mode:     datasetsv1.SpatialFilterMode_SPATIAL_FILTER_MODE_INTERSECTS,
    }),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

```plaintext Output
There are 27 Sentinel-2A granules intersecting the area of Colorado on April 2nd, 2025
```

### Contains

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-01", "2025-05-02"),
    spatial_extent={"geometry": area, "mode": "contains"},
)
print(f"There are {data.sizes['time']} Sentinel-2A granules fully contained within the area of Colorado on April 2nd, 2025")
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

var datapoints []*examplesv1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtentFilter(&query.SpatialFilter{
        Geometry: area,
        Mode:     datasetsv1.SpatialFilterMode_SPATIAL_FILTER_MODE_CONTAINS,
    }),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

```plaintext Output
There are 16 Sentinel-2A granules fully contained within the area of Colorado on April 2nd, 2025
```

## Antimeridian Crossings

In many applications, geometries that cross the antimeridian cause issues. Since such geometries are common in satellite
data, Tilebox does take extra care to handle them out of the box correctly, by building the necessary internal spatial
index structures in a way that correctly handles antimeridian crossings and pole coverings.

To get accurate results also at query time, it's recommend to use the `spherical` [coordinate reference system](#coordinate-reference-system) 
for querying (which is the default), as it correctly handles the non-linearity introduced by the antimeridian in `cartesian` space.

<Tip>
    Even if you stick to the `spherical` coordinate reference system when querying, it's still recommended to follow the 
    [best practices for handling geometries](/datasets/geometries). In doing so,
    you can ensure that no geometry related issues will arise even when interfacing with other libraries and tools that may not properly
    support non-linearities in geometries.
</Tip>

## Coordinate reference system

Geometry intersection and containment checks can either be performed in a [3D Spherical coordinate system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spherical_coordinate_system)
or in a standard 2D cartesian `lat/lon` coordinate system.

<Columns cols={2}>
    <Frame caption="Spherical coordinate reference system">
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/crs-spherical-light.png" alt="Spherical coordinate reference system" className="dark:hidden"/>
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/crs-spherical-dark.png" alt="Spherical coordinate reference system" className="hidden dark:block"/>
    </Frame>
    <Frame caption="Cartesian coordinate reference system">
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/crs-cartesian-light.png" alt="Cartesian coordinate reference system" className="dark:hidden" />
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/crs-cartesian-dark.png" alt="Cartesian coordinate reference system" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
</Columns>

### Spherical

The `spherical` coordinate reference system is the default and recommended one to use. It correctly handles antimeridian crossings
and is the most robust option, no matter how the datapoint geometries are cut along the antimeridian.

<Tip>
    Irregardless of the coordinate reference system is used, it is always recommended to follow the best practices
    for handling antimeridian crossings as described in the [Antimeridian Crossings section](#antimeridian-crossings) below.
</Tip>

When querying with the `spherical` coordinate reference system, Tilebox automatically converts all geometries to
their `x, y, z` coordinates on the unit sphere and performs the intersection and containment checks in 3D.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-01", "2025-05-02"),
    # spherical is the default, so can also be omitted entirely
    spatial_extent={"geometry": area, "coordinate_system": "spherical"},
)
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

var datapoints []*examplesv1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtentFilter(&query.SpatialFilter{
        Geometry: area,
        // spherical is the default, so can also be omitted entirely
        CoordinateSystem: datasetsv1.SpatialCoordinateSystem_SPATIAL_COORDINATE_SYSTEM_SPHERICAL,
    }),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

### Cartesian

Tilebox can also be configured to use a standard 2D cartesian `lat/lon` coordinate system for geometry intersection and containment checks
as well.
This can be done by specifying the `cartesian` coordinate reference system when querying.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-01", "2025-05-02"),
    spatial_extent={"geometry": area, "coordinate_system": "cartesian"},
)
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

var datapoints []*examplesv1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtentFilter(&query.SpatialFilter{
        Geometry: area,
        CoordinateSystem: datasetsv1.SpatialCoordinateSystem_SPATIAL_COORDINATE_SYSTEM_CARTESIAN,
    }),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

<Note>
    When using the `cartesian` coordinate system, antimeridian crossings may cause issues if datapoint geometries
    or the query geometry do not properly respect the antimeridian cut. Check out the 
    [Antimeridian Crossings](#antimeridian-crossings) section below for best practices to ensure correct results irregardless
    of the coordinate reference system used.
</Note>

Commit message:

Improve wording for geometry docs (#73)
* Improve wording

* Make spatial geometry language more concise

datasets/query/filter-by-location.mdx, after:

---
title: Filtering by a location
sidebarTitle: Filter by location
description: Learn how to filter your query results using a specified geographical area of interest.
icon: globe-pointer
---

<Tip>
    Check out the [best practices for handling geometries](/datasets/geometries) to learn more about the different aspects to consider when working with geometries, including antimeridian crossings and pole coverings.
</Tip>

When querying, you can specify arbitrary geometries as an area of interest. Tilebox currently supports `Polygon` and `MultiPolygon` geometries as query filters.

## Filtering by Area of Interest

To filter by an area of interest, use a `Polygon` or `MultiPolygon` geometry as the spatial extent parameter.

Here is how to query Sentinel-2 `S2A_S2MSI2A` data over Colorado for a specific day in April 2025.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from shapely import Polygon
from tilebox.datasets import Client

area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

client = Client()
sentinel2_msi = client.dataset("open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi")
collection = sentinel2_msi.collection("S2A_S2MSI2A")
data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-02", "2025-04-03"),
    spatial_extent=area,
)
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

ctx := context.Background()
client := datasets.NewClient()

dataset, err := client.Datasets.Get(ctx, "open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to get dataset: %v", err)
}

collection, err := client.Collections.Get(ctx, dataset.ID, "S2A_S2MSI2A")
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to get collection: %v", err)
}

var datapoints []*v1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtent(area),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

## Intersection mode

By default, queries return all datapoints that intersect with the specified geometry. You can alter this behavior to return only datapoints fully contained within the geometry. Tilebox supports this by allowing you to specify a mode for the spatial filter.

<Columns cols={2}>
    <Frame caption="mode: intersects">
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/intersection-mode-intersects-light.png" alt="Query results with intersects mode" className="dark:hidden" />
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/intersection-mode-intersects-dark.png" alt="Query results with intersects mode" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
    <Frame caption="mode: contains">
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/intersection-mode-contains-light.png" alt="Query results with contains mode" className="dark:hidden" />
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/intersection-mode-contains-dark.png" alt="Query results with contains mode" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
</Columns>

### Intersects

The `intersects` mode is the default for spatial queries. It matches all datapoints whose geometries intersect with the query geometry.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-02", "2025-04-03"),
    # intersects is the default, so can also be omitted entirely
    spatial_extent={"geometry": area, "mode": "intersects"},
)
print(f"There are {data.sizes['time']} Sentinel-2A granules intersecting the area of Colorado on April 2nd, 2025")
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

var datapoints []*examplesv1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtentFilter(&query.SpatialFilter{
        Geometry: area,
        // intersects is the default, so can also be omitted entirely
        Mode:     datasetsv1.SpatialFilterMode_SPATIAL_FILTER_MODE_INTERSECTS,
    }),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

```plaintext Output
There are 27 Sentinel-2A granules intersecting the area of Colorado on April 2nd, 2025
```

### Contains

The `contains` mode matches all datapoints whose geometries are fully contained within the query geometry.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-01", "2025-05-02"),
    spatial_extent={"geometry": area, "mode": "contains"},
)
print(f"There are {data.sizes['time']} Sentinel-2A granules fully contained within the area of Colorado on April 2nd, 2025")
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

var datapoints []*examplesv1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtentFilter(&query.SpatialFilter{
        Geometry: area,
        Mode:     datasetsv1.SpatialFilterMode_SPATIAL_FILTER_MODE_CONTAINS,
    }),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

```plaintext Output
There are 16 Sentinel-2A granules fully contained within the area of Colorado on April 2nd, 2025
```

## Antimeridian Crossings

In many applications, geometries that cross the antimeridian cause issues. Since such geometries are common in satellite
data, Tilebox does take extra care to handle them out of the box correctly, by building the necessary internal spatial
index structures in a way that correctly handles antimeridian crossings and pole coverings.

To get accurate results also at query time, it's recommend to use the `spherical` [coordinate reference system](#coordinate-reference-system) 
for querying (which is the default), as it correctly handles the non-linearity introduced by the antimeridian in `cartesian` space.

<Tip>
    Even if you stick to the `spherical` coordinate reference system when querying, it's still recommended to follow the 
    [best practices for handling geometries](/datasets/geometries). In doing so,
    you can ensure that no geometry related issues will arise even when interfacing with other libraries and tools that may not properly
    support non-linearities in geometries.
</Tip>

## Coordinate reference system

Geometry intersection and containment checks can either be performed in a [3D spherical coordinate system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spherical_coordinate_system)
or in a standard 2D cartesian `lat/lon` coordinate system.

<Columns cols={2}>
    <Frame caption="Spherical coordinate reference system">
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/crs-spherical-light.png" alt="Spherical coordinate reference system" className="dark:hidden"/>
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/crs-spherical-dark.png" alt="Spherical coordinate reference system" className="hidden dark:block"/>
    </Frame>
    <Frame caption="Cartesian coordinate reference system">
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/crs-cartesian-light.png" alt="Cartesian coordinate reference system" className="dark:hidden" />
        <img src="/assets/datasets/queries/crs-cartesian-dark.png" alt="Cartesian coordinate reference system" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
</Columns>

### Spherical

The `spherical` coordinate reference system is the default and recommended choice. It correctly handles antimeridian
crossings and is the most robust option, regardless of how datapoint geometries are cut along the antimeridian.

<Tip>
    To learn more about antimeridian crossings and how to handle them correctly, check out the [Antimeridian Crossings section](#antimeridian-crossings) above.
</Tip>

When querying with the `spherical` coordinate reference system, Tilebox automatically converts all geometries to
their `x, y, z` coordinates on the unit sphere and performs the intersection and containment checks in 3D.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-01", "2025-05-02"),
    # spherical is the default, so can also be omitted entirely
    spatial_extent={"geometry": area, "coordinate_system": "spherical"},
)
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

var datapoints []*examplesv1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtentFilter(&query.SpatialFilter{
        Geometry: area,
        // spherical is the default, so can also be omitted entirely
        CoordinateSystem: datasetsv1.SpatialCoordinateSystem_SPATIAL_COORDINATE_SYSTEM_SPHERICAL,
    }),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

### Cartesian

Tilebox can also be configured to use a standard 2D cartesian `lat/lon` coordinate system for geometry intersection and containment checks.
This is done by specifying the `cartesian` coordinate reference system when querying.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
area = Polygon(  # area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    ((-109.05, 41.00), (-109.045, 37.0), (-102.05, 37.0), (-102.05, 41.00), (-109.05, 41.00)),
)

data = collection.query(
    temporal_extent=("2025-04-01", "2025-05-02"),
    spatial_extent={"geometry": area, "coordinate_system": "cartesian"},
)
```
```go Go
startDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 2, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
endDate := time.Date(2025, 4, 3, 0, 0, 0, 0, time.UTC) 
area := orb.Polygon{  // area roughly covering the state of Colorado
    {{-109.05, 41.00}, {-109.045, 37.0},  {-102.05, 37.0}, {-102.05, 41.00}, {-109.05, 41.00}},
}

var datapoints []*examplesv1.Sentinel2Msi
err = client.Datapoints.QueryInto(ctx,
    []uuid.UUID{collection.ID},
    &datapoints,
    datasets.WithTemporalExtent(query.NewTimeInterval(startDate, endDate)),
    datasets.WithSpatialExtentFilter(&query.SpatialFilter{
        Geometry: area,
        CoordinateSystem: datasetsv1.SpatialCoordinateSystem_SPATIAL_COORDINATE_SYSTEM_CARTESIAN,
    }),
)
if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to query datapoints: %v", err)
}
```
</CodeGroup>

<Note>
    When using the `cartesian` coordinate system, antimeridian crossings may cause issues if datapoint geometries
    or the query geometry do not properly respect the antimeridian cut. Check out the [best practices](/datasets/geometries#best-practices)
    for handling geometries to learn more about how to avoid such issues.
</Note>
