guides/datasets/create.mdx, before:

---
title: Creating a dataset
description: Learn how to create a dataset with your own, custom schema
icon: database
---

This page guides you through the process of creating a dataset in Tilebox using the [Tilebox Console](/console).

## Related documentation

<Columns cols={2}>
    <Card title="Datasets" icon="database" href="/datasets/concepts/datasets" horizontal>
        Learn about Tilebox datasets and how to use them.
    </Card>
    <Card title="Timeseries Datasets" icon="diamonds-4" href="/datasets/types/timeseries" horizontal>
        Learn about Timeseries datasets, which link each data point to a specific point in time.
    </Card>
</Columns>

## Creating a dataset in the Console

<Steps>
  <Step title="Navigate to the Create dataset form">
    Create a dataset in Tilebox by going to [My datasets](https://console.tilebox.com/datasets/my-datasets) and clicking the `Create dataset` button.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Select a dataset kind">
    Choose a [dataset kind](/datasets/concepts/datasets#dataset-types) from the dropdown menu. Required fields for the selected dataset kind are automatically added.

    <Frame>
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-light.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
  </Step>
  <Step title="Specify a name, code name, and description">
   Complete these fields:

    - `Name` is the name of your dataset.
    - `Code name` is a unique identifier for the dataset within your team. It's automatically generated, but you can adjust it if needed.
    - `Description` is a brief description of the dataset purpose.

    <Frame>
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-temporal-light.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-temporal-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
  </Step>
  <Step title="Define the dataset schema">
    Specify the fields for your dataset.

    Each field has these properties:
    - `Name` is the name of the field (by convention it is recommended to be in `snake_case`).
    - `Type` is the data type of the field.
    - `Array` can be set to indicate that the field contains multiple values of the specified type.
    - `Description` is an optional brief description of the field. You can use it to provide more context and details about the data.
    - `Example value` is an optional example for this field. It can be useful for documentation purposes.

    <Frame>
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-temporal-light.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-temporal-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
  </Step>
  <Step title="Save">
    Once you're done completing the fields, click "Create" to create and save the dataset. You are redirected to your newly created dataset.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Automatic dataset schema documentation

By specifying the fields for your dataset, including the data type, description, and an example value for each one, Tilebox
is capable of automatically generating a documentation page for your dataset schema.

<Frame>
    <img src="/assets/console/datasets-overview-light.png" alt="Dataset schema overview" className="dark:hidden" />
    <img src="/assets/console/datasets-overview-dark.png" alt="Dataset schema overview" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>

## Adding extra documentation

You can also add custom documentation to your dataset, providing more context and details about the data included data.
This documentation supports rich formatting, including links, tables, code snippets, and more.

<Frame>
    <img src="/assets/console/datasets-documentation-light.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
    <img src="/assets/console/datasets-documentation-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>

To add documentation, click the edit pencil button on the dataset page to open the documentation editor.
You can use Markdown to format your documentation; you can include links, tables, code snippets, and other Markdown features.

<Note>
    If you don't see the edit pencil button, you don't have the required permissions to edit the
    documentation.
</Note>

Once you are done editing the documentation, click the `Save` button to save your changes.

## Changing the dataset schema

You can always add new fields to a dataset.

If you want to remove or edit existing fields, you'll first need to empty all collections in the dataset, to ensure that
no existing data points relying on those fields exist. Then, you can freely edit the dataset schema in the console.

Commit message:

Update docs description fields (#103)
For better SEO
Bing Webmaster Tools let us know our descriptions aren't descriptive
enough and should be between 150 and 160 characters long

guides/datasets/create.mdx, after:

---
title: Creating a dataset
description: Learn how to create a custom dataset in the Tilebox Console, including choosing a dataset kind, defining your own schema fields, and organizing groups.
icon: database
---

This page guides you through the process of creating a dataset in Tilebox using the [Tilebox Console](/console).

## Related documentation

<Columns cols={2}>
    <Card title="Datasets" icon="database" href="/datasets/concepts/datasets" horizontal>
        Learn about Tilebox datasets and how to use them.
    </Card>
    <Card title="Timeseries Datasets" icon="diamonds-4" href="/datasets/types/timeseries" horizontal>
        Learn about Timeseries datasets, which link each data point to a specific point in time.
    </Card>
</Columns>

## Creating a dataset in the Console

<Steps>
  <Step title="Navigate to the Create dataset form">
    Create a dataset in Tilebox by going to [My datasets](https://console.tilebox.com/datasets/my-datasets) and clicking the `Create dataset` button.
  </Step>
  <Step title="Select a dataset kind">
    Choose a [dataset kind](/datasets/concepts/datasets#dataset-types) from the dropdown menu. Required fields for the selected dataset kind are automatically added.

    <Frame>
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-light.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
  </Step>
  <Step title="Specify a name, code name, and description">
   Complete these fields:

    - `Name` is the name of your dataset.
    - `Code name` is a unique identifier for the dataset within your team. It's automatically generated, but you can adjust it if needed.
    - `Description` is a brief description of the dataset purpose.

    <Frame>
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-temporal-light.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-temporal-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
  </Step>
  <Step title="Define the dataset schema">
    Specify the fields for your dataset.

    Each field has these properties:
    - `Name` is the name of the field (by convention it is recommended to be in `snake_case`).
    - `Type` is the data type of the field.
    - `Array` can be set to indicate that the field contains multiple values of the specified type.
    - `Description` is an optional brief description of the field. You can use it to provide more context and details about the data.
    - `Example value` is an optional example for this field. It can be useful for documentation purposes.

    <Frame>
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-temporal-light.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
      <img src="/assets/console/datasets-create-temporal-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
    </Frame>
  </Step>
  <Step title="Save">
    Once you're done completing the fields, click "Create" to create and save the dataset. You are redirected to your newly created dataset.
  </Step>
</Steps>

## Automatic dataset schema documentation

By specifying the fields for your dataset, including the data type, description, and an example value for each one, Tilebox
is capable of automatically generating a documentation page for your dataset schema.

<Frame>
    <img src="/assets/console/datasets-overview-light.png" alt="Dataset schema overview" className="dark:hidden" />
    <img src="/assets/console/datasets-overview-dark.png" alt="Dataset schema overview" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>

## Adding extra documentation

You can also add custom documentation to your dataset, providing more context and details about the data included data.
This documentation supports rich formatting, including links, tables, code snippets, and more.

<Frame>
    <img src="/assets/console/datasets-documentation-light.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
    <img src="/assets/console/datasets-documentation-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>

To add documentation, click the edit pencil button on the dataset page to open the documentation editor.
You can use Markdown to format your documentation; you can include links, tables, code snippets, and other Markdown features.

<Note>
    If you don't see the edit pencil button, you don't have the required permissions to edit the
    documentation.
</Note>

Once you are done editing the documentation, click the `Save` button to save your changes.

## Changing the dataset schema

You can always add new fields to a dataset.

If you want to remove or edit existing fields, you'll first need to empty all collections in the dataset, to ensure that
no existing data points relying on those fields exist. Then, you can freely edit the dataset schema in the console.
