workflows/near-real-time/recurrent-tasks.mdx, before:

---
title: Recurrent Tasks
description: Process data in near-real-time by triggering jobs based on external events
icon: repeat
---

## Introduction

Tilebox Workflows are not only capable of executing jobs once after they are submitted by a user, often also referred
to as batch-processing. Instead, it's also possible to execute jobs in near-real-time, by defining trigger conditions
that result in jobs being executed based on external events. This requires no changes in the actual workflow code - 
the task implementations - at all, instead it's just a different way of submitting jobs.

Tilebox Workflows currently supports the following trigger conditions:

<CardGroup cols={1}>
    <Card title="Cron Triggers" icon="clock" href="/workflows/near-real-time/cron" horizontal>
        Trigger jobs based on a Cron schedule.
    </Card>
    <Card title="Storage Event Triggers" icon="right-to-line" href="/workflows/near-real-time/storage-events" horizontal>
        Trigger jobs after objects are created or modified in a storage location.
    </Card>
</CardGroup>

<Info>
    Dataset Event Triggers, capable of triggering jobs because of new data points being ingested into a Tilebox dataset,
    are the next trigger type on the roadmap. Stay tuned for updates.
</Info>

## Recurrent Tasks

To create such a trigger, a special task needs to be defined, that acts as prototype for the tasks that
are submitted as part of a job as response to a trigger. Such a task prototype is called a recurrent task.

Since a recurrent task acts as a prototype for an actual task that gets submitted, it has a [task identifier](/workflows/concepts/tasks#task-identifiers),
a [version](/workflows/concepts/tasks#semantic-versioning) and [input parameters](/workflows/concepts/tasks#input-parameters) just
like any other regular task would. Recurrent tasks additionally also have a special `trigger` parameter. It differs for each
instantiation of the recurrent task and contains information about the event that triggered the execution of the task.

## Recurrent task client

The Tilebox workflows client provides a sub-client for interacting with recurrent tasks. This client can be
instantiated by calling the `recurrent_tasks` method on the client instance.

### Listing registered recurrent tasks

To list all registered recurrent tasks, you can use the `all` method on the recurrent task client.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
recurrent_tasks = client.recurrent_tasks()

recurrent_tasks = recurrent_tasks.all()
print(recurrent_tasks)
```

```plaintext Output
[
    RecurrentTaskPrototype(
        name='Run MyCronTask every hour at 15 minutes past the hour',
        prototype=TaskSubmission(
            cluster_slug='dev-cluster',
            identifier=TaskIdentifier(name='MyCronTask', version='v0.0'),
            input=b'{"message": "Hello"},
            dependencies=[],
            display='MyCronTask',
            max_retries=0), 
        storage_event_triggers=[],
        cron_triggers=[CronTrigger(schedule='15 * * * *')],
    )
]
```

### Registering a recurrent tasks

To register a recurrent task, the recurrent task client provides `create_recurring_...` methods for each trigger type.
Check out the documentation of the individual trigger types for more details.

<CardGroup>
    <Card title="Cron Triggers" icon="clock" href="/workflows/near-real-time/cron" horizontal />
    <Card title="Storage Event Triggers" icon="right-to-line" href="/workflows/near-real-time/storage-events" horizontal />
</CardGroup>

## Overview in the Tilebox Console

Other than using the Tilebox SDKs to list or register recurrent tasks, you can also manage them in the Tilebox Console.
Head over to [the Workflows tab](https://console.tilebox.com/workflows/recurrent-tasks) to check it out.

There, you'll find a list of all registered recurrent tasks.

<Frame>
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/recurrent-tasks-light.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/recurrent-tasks-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>

Additionally, you'll be able to register new recurrent tasks or edit/delete existing ones.

<Frame>
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/recurrent-task-edit-light.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/recurrent-task-edit-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>

Commit message:

Documentation content overhaul (#29)
* AI editing of introduction and getting started pages

* Update API-reference

* Remove code reference

* Improve SDK pages

* Move api reference pages to package names

* Improve dataset pages

* Improve workflows pages

workflows/near-real-time/recurrent-tasks.mdx, after:

---
title: Recurrent Tasks
description: Process data in near-real-time by triggering jobs based on external events
icon: repeat
---

## Introduction

Tilebox Workflows can execute jobs in two ways: a one-time execution triggered by a user, typically a batch processing, and near-real-time execution based on specific external events. By defining trigger conditions, you can automatically submit jobs based on external events.

Tilebox Workflows currently supports the following trigger conditions:

<CardGroup cols={1}>
    <Card title="Cron Triggers" icon="clock" href="/workflows/near-real-time/cron" horizontal>
        Trigger jobs based on a Cron schedule.
    </Card>
    <Card title="Storage Event Triggers" icon="right-to-line" href="/workflows/near-real-time/storage-events" horizontal>
        Trigger jobs after objects are created or modified in a storage location such as a cloud bucket.
    </Card>
</CardGroup>

<Info>
    Dataset Event Triggers, which will trigger jobs when new data points are ingested into a Tilebox dataset, are on the roadmap. Stay tuned for updates.
</Info>

## Recurrent Tasks

To create a trigger, define a special task that serves as a prototype. In response to a trigger condition met, this task will be submitted as a new job. Such tasks are referred to as recurrent tasks.

Each recurrent task has a [task identifier](/workflows/concepts/tasks#task-identifiers), a [version](/workflows/concepts/tasks#semantic-versioning), and [input parameters](/workflows/concepts/tasks#input-parameters), just like regular tasks.
Recurrent tasks also automatically provide a special `trigger` attribute that contains information about the event that initiated the task's execution.

## Recurrent Task Client

The Tilebox Workflows client includes a sub-client for managing recurrent tasks. You can create this sub-client by calling the `recurrent_tasks` method on the main client instance.

### Listing Registered Recurrent Tasks

To list all registered recurrent tasks, use the `all` method on the recurrent task client.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
recurrent_tasks = client.recurrent_tasks()

recurrent_tasks = recurrent_tasks.all()
print(recurrent_tasks)
```

```plaintext Output
[
    RecurrentTaskPrototype(
        name='Run MyCronTask every hour at 15 minutes past the hour',
        prototype=TaskSubmission(
            cluster_slug='dev-cluster',
            identifier=TaskIdentifier(name='MyCronTask', version='v0.0'),
            input=b'{"message": "Hello"},
            dependencies=[],
            display='MyCronTask',
            max_retries=0), 
        storage_event_triggers=[],
        cron_triggers=[CronTrigger(schedule='15 * * * *')],
    )
]
```

### Registering Recurrent Tasks

To register a recurrent task, use the `create_recurring_...` methods specific to each trigger type provided by the recurrent task client. Refer to the documentation for each trigger type for more details.

<CardGroup>
    <Card title="Cron Triggers" icon="clock" href="/workflows/near-real-time/cron" horizontal />
    <Card title="Storage Event Triggers" icon="right-to-line" href="/workflows/near-real-time/storage-events" horizontal />
</CardGroup>

## Overview in the Tilebox Console

You can also use the Tilebox Console to manage recurrent tasks. Visit [the recurrent tasks section](https://console.tilebox.com/workflows/recurrent-tasks) to check it out.

<Frame>
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/recurrent-tasks-light.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/recurrent-tasks-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>

You can also register new recurrent tasks or edit and delete existing ones directly from the console.

<Frame>
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/recurrent-task-edit-light.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/recurrent-task-edit-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>
