workflows/near-real-time/storage-events.mdx, before:

---
title: Storage Event Triggers
description: Trigger jobs after objects are created or modified in a storage location
icon: right-to-line
---

## Creating a Storage Event Task

Storage Event Tasks are recurring tasks triggered when objects are created or modified in a [storage location](#storage-locations). To create a Cron task, use `tilebox.workflows.recurrent_tasks.StorageEventTask` as your tasks base class instead of the regular `tilebox.workflows.Task`.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import ExecutionContext
from tilebox.workflows.recurrent_tasks import StorageEventTask, StorageEventType
from tilebox.workflows.observability.logging import get_logger

logger = get_logger()

class LogObjectCreation(StorageEventTask):
    head_bytes: int

    def execute(self, context: ExecutionContext) -> None:
        # self.trigger is an attribute of the StorageEventTask class,
        # which contains information about the storage event that triggered this task
        if self.trigger.type == StorageEventType.CREATED:
            path = self.trigger.location
            logger.info(f"A new object was created: {path}")

            # trigger.storage is a storage client for interacting with the storage
            # location that triggered the event
            # using it, we can read the object to get its content as a bytes object
            data = self.trigger.storage.read(path)
            logger.info(f"The object's file size is {len(data)} bytes")
            logger.info(f"The object's first {self.head_bytes} bytes are: {data[:self.head_bytes]}")
```

## Storage Locations

Storage Event tasks are triggered when objects are created or modified in a storage location. This location can be a cloud storage bucket or a local file system. Tilebox supports the following storage locations:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
    <Card title="Google Cloud Storage" icon="google" horizontal />
    <Card title="Amazon S3" icon="aws" horizontal />
    <Card title="Local File System" icon="folder-open" horizontal />
</CardGroup>

### Registering a Storage Location

To make a storage location available within Tilebox workflows, it must be registered first. This involves specifying the location and setting up a notification system that forwards events to Tilebox, enabling task triggering. The setup varies depending on the storage location type.

For example, a GCP storage bucket is integrated by setting up a [PubSub Notification with a push subscription](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/pubsub-notifications). A local file system requires installing a filesystem watcher. To set up a storage location registered with Tilebox, please [get in touch](mailto:engineering@tilebox.com).

### Listing Available Storage Locations

To list all available storage locations, use the `all` method on the storage location client.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
recurrent_tasks_client = client.recurrent_tasks()

storage_locations = recurrent_tasks_client.storage_locations()
print(storage_locations)
```

```plaintext Output
[
    StorageLocation(
        location="gcp-project:gcs-bucket-fab3fa2",
        type=StorageType.GCS,
    ),
    StorageLocation(
        location="s3-bucket-263af15",
        type=StorageType.S3,
    ),
    StorageLocation(
        location='/path/to/a/local/folder',
        type=StorageType.FS,
    ),
]
```

### Reading Files from a Storage Location

Once a storage location is registered, you can read files from it using the `read` method on the storage client.

```python Python
gcs_bucket = storage_locations[0]
s3_bucket = storage_locations[1]
local_folder = storage_locations[2]

gcs_object = gcs_bucket.read("my-object.txt")
s3_object = s3_bucket.read("my-object.txt")
local_object = local_folder.read("my-object.txt")
```

<Note>
    The `read` method instantiates a client for the specific storage location. This requires that
    the storage location is accessible by a task runner and may require credentials for cloud storage
    or physical/network access to a locally mounted file system.
</Note>

<Tip>
    To set up authentication and enable access to a GCS storage bucket, check out the [Google Client docs for authentication](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/client-libraries#python).
</Tip>

## Registering a Storage Event Trigger

After implementing a Storage Event task, register it to trigger each time a storage event occurs. This registration submits a new job consisting of a single task instance derived from the registered Storage Event task prototype.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
recurrent_tasks = client.recurrent_tasks()
storage_event_task = recurrent_tasks.create_recurring_storage_event_task(
    "log-object-creations",  # name of the recurring storage event task
    "dev-cluster",  # cluster slug to submit jobs to
    LogObjectCreation(head_bytes=20),  # the task (and its input parameters) to run repeatedly
    triggers=[
        # you can specify a glob pattern:
        # run every time a .txt file is created anywhere in the gcs bucket
        (gcs_bucket, "**.txt"),  
    ],
)
```

<Tip>
    The syntax for specifying glob patterns follows [Standard Wildcards](https://tldp.org/LDP/GNU-Linux-Tools-Summary/html/x11655.htm).
    Additionally, you can use `**` as a super-asterisk, a matching operator not sensitive to slash separators.
</Tip>

Here are some examples of valid glob patterns:

| Pattern | Matches |
|---------|---------|
| `*.ext` | Any file ending in `.ext` in the root directory |
| `**/*.ext` | Any file ending in `.ext` in any subdirectory, but not in the root directory |
| `**.ext` | Any file ending in `.ext` in any subdirectory, including the root directory |
| `folder/*` | Any file directly in a `folder` subdirectory |
| `folder/**` | Any file directly or recursively part of a `folder` subdirectory |
| `[a-z].txt`| Matches `a.txt`, `b.txt`, etc. |

## Start a Storage Event Task Runner

With the Storage Event task registered, a job is submitted whenever a storage event occurs. But unless a [task runner](/workflows/concepts/task-runners) is available to execute the Storage Event task the submitted jobs remain in a task queue.
Once an [eligible task runner](/workflows/concepts/task-runners#task-selection) becomes available, all jobs in the queue are executed.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
runner = client.runner("dev-cluster", tasks=[LogObjectCreation])
runner.run_forever()
```

### Triggering an Event

Creating an object in the bucket where the task is registered results in a job being submitted:

```bash Creating an object
echo "Hello World" > my-object.txt
gcloud storage cp my-object.txt gs://gcs-bucket-fab3fa2
```

Inspecting the task runner output reveals that the job was submitted and the task executed:

```plaintext Output
2024-09-25 16:51:45,621 INFO A new object was created: my-object.txt
2024-09-25 16:51:45,857 INFO The object's file size is 12 bytes
2024-09-25 16:51:45,858 INFO The object's first 20 bytes are: b'Hello World\n'
```

## Inspecting in the Console

The [Tilebox Console](https://console.tilebox.com/workflows/recurrent-tasks) provides an easy way to inspect all registered storage event tasks.

<Frame>
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/storage-event-light.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/storage-event-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows recurrent tasks in the Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>

## Deleting Storage Event triggers

To delete a registered storage event task, use `recurrent_tasks.delete`. After deletion, no new jobs will be submitted by the storage event trigger. Past jobs already triggered will still remain queued.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
recurrent_tasks = client.recurrent_tasks()

# delete the task as returned by create_recurring_storage_event_task
recurrent_tasks.delete(storage_event_task)

# or manually by id:
recurrent_tasks.delete("0190bafc-b3b8-88c4-008b-a5db044380d0")
```

## Submitting Storage Event jobs manually

You can submit Storage event tasks as regular tasks for testing purposes or as part of a larger workflow. To do so, instantiate the task with a specific storage location and object name using the `once` method.

```python Python
job_client = client.jobs()

task = LogObjectCreation(head_bytes=20)

# submitting it directly won't work; raises ValueError:
# StorageEventTask cannot be submitted without being triggered. Use task.once().
job_client.submit(
    "manual-storage-event-job",
    task,
    cluster="dev-cluster"
)

# instead, specify a trigger,
# so that we can submit the task as a regular task
triggered_task = task.once(gcs_bucket, "my-object.txt")
job_client.submit(
    "manual-storage-event-job",
    triggered_task,
    cluster="dev-cluster"
)
```

Commit message:

Rename recurrent task to automation

workflows/near-real-time/storage-events.mdx, after:

---
title: Storage Event Triggers
description: Trigger jobs after objects are created or modified in a storage location
icon: right-to-line
---

## Creating a Storage Event Task

Storage Event Tasks are recurring tasks triggered when objects are created or modified in a [storage location](#storage-locations).
To create a Storage Event task, use `tilebox.workflows.automations.StorageEventTask` as your tasks base class instead of the regular `tilebox.workflows.Task`.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import ExecutionContext
from tilebox.workflows.automations import StorageEventTask, StorageEventType
from tilebox.workflows.observability.logging import get_logger

logger = get_logger()

class LogObjectCreation(StorageEventTask):
    head_bytes: int

    def execute(self, context: ExecutionContext) -> None:
        # self.trigger is an attribute of the StorageEventTask class,
        # which contains information about the storage event that triggered this task
        if self.trigger.type == StorageEventType.CREATED:
            path = self.trigger.location
            logger.info(f"A new object was created: {path}")

            # trigger.storage is a storage client for interacting with the storage
            # location that triggered the event
            # using it, we can read the object to get its content as a bytes object
            data = self.trigger.storage.read(path)
            logger.info(f"The object's file size is {len(data)} bytes")
            logger.info(f"The object's first {self.head_bytes} bytes are: {data[:self.head_bytes]}")
```

## Storage Locations

Storage Event tasks are triggered when objects are created or modified in a storage location. This location can be a cloud storage bucket or a local file system. Tilebox supports the following storage locations:

<CardGroup cols={2}>
    <Card title="Google Cloud Storage" icon="google" horizontal />
    <Card title="Amazon S3" icon="aws" horizontal />
    <Card title="Local File System" icon="folder-open" horizontal />
</CardGroup>

### Registering a Storage Location

To make a storage location available within Tilebox workflows, it must be registered first. This involves specifying the location and setting up a notification system that forwards events to Tilebox, enabling task triggering. The setup varies depending on the storage location type.

For example, a GCP storage bucket is integrated by setting up a [PubSub Notification with a push subscription](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/pubsub-notifications). A local file system requires installing a filesystem watcher. To set up a storage location registered with Tilebox, please [get in touch](mailto:engineering@tilebox.com).

### Listing Available Storage Locations

To list all available storage locations, use the `all` method on the storage location client.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
automations_client = client.automations()

storage_locations = automations_client.storage_locations()
print(storage_locations)
```

```plaintext Output
[
    StorageLocation(
        location="gcp-project:gcs-bucket-fab3fa2",
        type=StorageType.GCS,
    ),
    StorageLocation(
        location="s3-bucket-263af15",
        type=StorageType.S3,
    ),
    StorageLocation(
        location='/path/to/a/local/folder',
        type=StorageType.FS,
    ),
]
```

### Reading Files from a Storage Location

Once a storage location is registered, you can read files from it using the `read` method on the storage client.

```python Python
gcs_bucket = storage_locations[0]
s3_bucket = storage_locations[1]
local_folder = storage_locations[2]

gcs_object = gcs_bucket.read("my-object.txt")
s3_object = s3_bucket.read("my-object.txt")
local_object = local_folder.read("my-object.txt")
```

<Note>
    The `read` method instantiates a client for the specific storage location. This requires that
    the storage location is accessible by a task runner and may require credentials for cloud storage
    or physical/network access to a locally mounted file system.
</Note>

<Tip>
    To set up authentication and enable access to a GCS storage bucket, check out the [Google Client docs for authentication](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/client-libraries#python).
</Tip>

## Registering a Storage Event Trigger

After implementing a Storage Event task, register it to trigger each time a storage event occurs. This registration submits a new job consisting of a single task instance derived from the registered Storage Event task prototype.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
automations = client.automations()
storage_event_automation = automations.create_storage_event_automation(
    "log-object-creations",  # name of the recurring storage event automation
    "dev-cluster",  # cluster slug to submit jobs to
    LogObjectCreation(head_bytes=20),  # the task (and its input parameters) to run repeatedly
    triggers=[
        # you can specify a glob pattern:
        # run every time a .txt file is created anywhere in the gcs bucket
        (gcs_bucket, "**.txt"),  
    ],
)
```

<Tip>
    The syntax for specifying glob patterns follows [Standard Wildcards](https://tldp.org/LDP/GNU-Linux-Tools-Summary/html/x11655.htm).
    Additionally, you can use `**` as a super-asterisk, a matching operator not sensitive to slash separators.
</Tip>

Here are some examples of valid glob patterns:

| Pattern | Matches |
|---------|---------|
| `*.ext` | Any file ending in `.ext` in the root directory |
| `**/*.ext` | Any file ending in `.ext` in any subdirectory, but not in the root directory |
| `**.ext` | Any file ending in `.ext` in any subdirectory, including the root directory |
| `folder/*` | Any file directly in a `folder` subdirectory |
| `folder/**` | Any file directly or recursively part of a `folder` subdirectory |
| `[a-z].txt`| Matches `a.txt`, `b.txt`, etc. |

## Start a Storage Event Task Runner

With the Storage Event automation registered, a job is submitted whenever a storage event occurs. But unless a [task runner](/workflows/concepts/task-runners) is available to execute the Storage Event task the submitted jobs remain in a task queue.
Once an [eligible task runner](/workflows/concepts/task-runners#task-selection) becomes available, all jobs in the queue are executed.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
runner = client.runner("dev-cluster", tasks=[LogObjectCreation])
runner.run_forever()
```

### Triggering an Event

Creating an object in the bucket where the task is registered results in a job being submitted:

```bash Creating an object
echo "Hello World" > my-object.txt
gcloud storage cp my-object.txt gs://gcs-bucket-fab3fa2
```

Inspecting the task runner output reveals that the job was submitted and the task executed:

```plaintext Output
2024-09-25 16:51:45,621 INFO A new object was created: my-object.txt
2024-09-25 16:51:45,857 INFO The object's file size is 12 bytes
2024-09-25 16:51:45,858 INFO The object's first 20 bytes are: b'Hello World\n'
```

## Inspecting in the Console

The [Tilebox Console](https://console.tilebox.com/workflows/automations) provides an easy way to inspect all registered storage event automations.

<Frame>
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/storage-event-light.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows automations in the Tilebox Console" className="dark:hidden" />
  <img src="/assets/workflows/recurrent-tasks/storage-event-dark.png" alt="Tilebox Workflows automations in the Tilebox Console" className="hidden dark:block" />
</Frame>

## Deleting Storage Event automations

To delete a registered storage event automation, use `automations.delete`. After deletion, no new jobs will be submitted by the storage event trigger. Past jobs already triggered will still remain queued.

```python Python
from tilebox.workflows import Client

client = Client()
automations = client.automations()

# delete the automation as returned by create_storage_event_automation
automations.delete(storage_event_automation)

# or manually by id:
automations.delete("0190bafc-b3b8-88c4-008b-a5db044380d0")
```

## Submitting Storage Event jobs manually

You can submit Storage event tasks as regular tasks for testing purposes or as part of a larger workflow. To do so, instantiate the task with a specific storage location and object name using the `once` method.

```python Python
job_client = client.jobs()

task = LogObjectCreation(head_bytes=20)

# submitting it directly won't work; raises ValueError:
# StorageEventTask cannot be submitted without being triggered. Use task.once().
job_client.submit(
    "manual-storage-event-job",
    task,
    cluster="dev-cluster"
)

# instead, specify a trigger,
# so that we can submit the task as a regular task
triggered_task = task.once(gcs_bucket, "my-object.txt")
job_client.submit(
    "manual-storage-event-job",
    triggered_task,
    cluster="dev-cluster"
)
```
