datasets/concepts/datasets.mdx, before:

---
title: Datasets
description: Tilebox Datasets act as containers for data points. All data points in a dataset share the same type and fields.
icon: database
---

<Tip>
  You can create your own, Custom Datasets via the [Tilebox Console](/console).
</Tip>

## Related Guides

<Columns cols={2}>
  <Card title="Creating a dataset" icon="database" href="/guides/datasets/create" horizontal>
    Learn how to create a Timeseries dataset using the Tilebox Console.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Ingesting data" icon="up-from-bracket" href="/guides/datasets/ingest" horizontal>
    Learn how to ingest an existing CSV dataset into a Timeseries dataset collection.
  </Card>
</Columns>

## Dataset types

Each dataset is of a specific type. Each dataset type comes with a set of required fields for each data point.
The dataset type also determines the query capabilities for a dataset, for example, whether a dataset supports time-based queries
or additionally also spatially filtered queries.

To find out which fields are required for each dataset type check out the documentation for the available dataset types
below.

<Columns cols={2}>
  <Card title="Timeseries Data" icon="diamonds-4" href="/datasets/types/timeseries" horizontal>
    Each data point is linked to a specific point in time. Common for satellite telemetry, or other time-based data.
    Supports efficient time-based queries.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Spatio-temporal Data" icon="earth-europe" href="/datasets/types/spatiotemporal" horizontal>
    Each data point is linked to a specific point in time and a location on the Earth's surface. Common for satellite
    imagery. Supports efficient time-based and spatially filtered queries.
  </Card>
</Columns>

## Dataset specific fields

Additionally, each dataset has a set of fields that are specific to that dataset. Fields are defined during dataset
creation. That way, all data points in a dataset are strongly typed and are validated during ingestion.
The required fields of the dataset type, as well as the custom fields specific to each dataset together make up the
**dataset schema**.

Once a **dataset schema** is defined, existing fields cannot be removed or edited as soon as data has been ingested into it.
You can always add new fields to a dataset, since all fields are always optional.

<Tip>
    The only exception to this rule are empty datasets. If you empty all collections in a dataset, you can freely
    edit the data schema, since no conflicts with existing data points can occur.
</Tip>

## Field types

When defining the data schema, you can specify each field's type. The following field types are supported.

### Primitives

| Type | Description | Example value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">string</span> | A string of characters of arbitrary length. | `Some string` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">int64</span> | A 64-bit signed integer. | `123` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">uint64</span> | A 64-bit unsigned integer. | `123` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">float64</span> | A 64-bit floating-point number. | `123.45` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">bool</span> | A boolean. | `true` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">bytes</span> | A sequence of arbitrary length bytes. | `0xAF1E28D4` |

### Time

| Type | Description | Example value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">Duration</span> | A signed, fixed-length span of time represented as a count of seconds and fractions of seconds at nanosecond resolution. See [Duration](https://protobuf.dev/reference/protobuf/google.protobuf/#duration) for more information. | `12s 345ms` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">Timestamp</span> | A point in time, represented as seconds and fractions of seconds at nanosecond resolution in UTC Epoch time. See [Timestamp](https://protobuf.dev/reference/protobuf/google.protobuf/#timestamp) for more information. | `2023-05-17T14:30:00Z` |

### Identifier

| Type | Description | Example value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">UUID</span> | A [universally unique identifier (UUID)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier). | `126a2531-c98d-4e06-815a-34bc5b1228cc` |

### Geospatial

| Type | Description | Example value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">Geometry</span> | Geospatial geometries of type Point, LineString, Polygon or MultiPolygon. | `POLYGON ((12.3 -5.4, 12.5 -5.4, ...))` |

### Arrays

Every type is also available as an array, allowing to ingest multiple values of the underlying type for each data point. The size of the array is flexible, and can be different for each data point.

## Listing datasets

You can use [your client instance](/datasets/introduction#creating-a-datasets-client) to access the datasets available to you. To list all available datasets, use the `datasets` method of the client.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from tilebox.datasets import Client

client = Client()
datasets = client.datasets()
print(datasets)
```
```go Go
package main

import (
  "context"
  "log"

  "github.com/tilebox/tilebox-go/datasets/v1"
)

func main() {
  ctx := context.Background()

  client := datasets.NewClient()

  allDatasets, err := client.Datasets.List(ctx)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to list datasets: %v", err)
  }

  for _, dataset := range allDatasets {
    log.Println(dataset)
  }
}
```
</CodeGroup>

```plaintext Output
open_data:
    asf:
        ers_sar: European Remote Sensing Satellite (ERS) Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) Granules
    copernicus:
        landsat8_oli_tirs: Landsat-8 is part of the long-running Landsat programme ...
        sentinel1_sar: The Sentinel-1 mission is the European Radar Observatory for the ...
        sentinel2_msi: Sentinel-2 is equipped with an optical instrument payload that samples ...
        sentinel3_olci: OLCI (Ocean and Land Colour Instrument) is an optical instrument used to ...
        ...
```

Once you have your dataset object, you can use it to [list the available collections](/datasets/concepts/collections) for the dataset.

<Tip>
  In python, if you're using an IDE or an interactive environment with auto-complete, you can use it on your client instance to discover the datasets available to you. Type `client.` and trigger auto-complete after the dot to do so.
</Tip>

## Creating a dataset

You can create a dataset in code or using the Console (cf [Creating a dataset using the Console](/guides/datasets/create)).

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from datetime import timedelta
from tilebox.datasets import Client
from tilebox.datasets.data.datasets import DatasetKind

client = Client()

dataset = client.create_dataset(
    DatasetKind.SPATIOTEMPORAL,
    "my_landsat8_oli_tirs",
    [
        {
            "name": "granule_name",
            "type": str,
            "description": "The name of the Landsat-8 granule.",
            "example_value": "LE07_L1TP_174061_20010913_20200917_02_T1",
        },
        {
            "name": "cloud_cover",
            "type": float,
            "description": "Cloud cover percentage",
            "example_value": "91",
        },
        {
            "name": "proj_shape",
            "type": list[int],
            "description": "Raster shape",
            "example_value": "[6971, 7801]",
        },
    ],
    name="Personal Landsat-8 catalog",
    description="This catalog contains metadata for Landsat-8 OLI-TIRS data.",
)
```
```go Go
dataset, err := client.Datasets.Create(ctx,
  "Personal Landsat-8 catalog",
  datasets.KindSpatiotemporal,
  "my_landsat8_oli_tirs",
  "This catalog contains metadata for Landsat-8 OLI-TIRS data.",
  []datasets.Field{
    field.String("granule_name").Description("The name of the Earth View Granule").ExampleValue("20220830_185202_SN18_10N_552149_5297327"),
    field.Float64("cloud_cover").Description("Cloud cover percentage").ExampleValue("91"),
    field.Int64("proj_shape").Repeated().Description("Raster shape").ExampleValue("[6971, 7801]"),
  }
)
```
</CodeGroup>

This code will create a new catalog with 7 fields in total.
4 of those fields are auto-generated by choosing the spatio-temporal dataset type, and 3 (`granule_name`, `cloud_cover`, `proj_shape`) are custom fields that are defined.

## Accessing a dataset

Each dataset has an automatically generated *slug* that can be used to access it. The *slug* is the name of the group, followed by a dot, followed by the dataset *code name*.
For example, the *slug* for the Sentinel-2 MSI dataset, which is part of the `open_data.copernicus` group, is `open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi`.

To access a dataset, use the `dataset` method of your client instance and pass the *slug* of the dataset as an argument.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from tilebox.datasets import Client

client = Client()
s2_msi_dataset = client.dataset("open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi")
```
```go Go
s2MsiDataset, err := client.Datasets.Get(ctx, "open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi")
```
</CodeGroup>

Once you have your dataset object, you can use it to [access available collections](/datasets/concepts/collections) for the dataset.

## Deleting a dataset

Datasets can be deleted through the [Tilebox Console](/console) by clicking the `Delete` button in the dataset page.

Empty datasets will be deleted right away. A dataset is considered empty if none of its collections contain any data points.

A non-empty dataset can also be deleted, but is a destructive operation.
Every data point in every collection of the dataset will be deleted.

As a safety measure, Tilebox soft-deletes the dataset for 7 days before permanently deleting it.
Please [get in touch](mailto:support@tilebox.com) if you deleted a dataset by accident and want to restore it.

Commit message:

Document create_or_update dataset (#100)

datasets/concepts/datasets.mdx, after:

---
title: Datasets
description: Tilebox Datasets act as containers for data points. All data points in a dataset share the same type and fields.
icon: database
---

<Tip>
  You can create your own, Custom Datasets via the [Tilebox Console](/console).
</Tip>

## Related Guides

<Columns cols={2}>
  <Card title="Creating a dataset" icon="database" href="/guides/datasets/create" horizontal>
    Learn how to create a Timeseries dataset using the Tilebox Console.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Ingesting data" icon="up-from-bracket" href="/guides/datasets/ingest" horizontal>
    Learn how to ingest an existing CSV dataset into a Timeseries dataset collection.
  </Card>
</Columns>

## Dataset types

Each dataset is of a specific type. Each dataset type comes with a set of required fields for each data point.
The dataset type also determines the query capabilities for a dataset, for example, whether a dataset supports time-based queries
or additionally also spatially filtered queries.

To find out which fields are required for each dataset type check out the documentation for the available dataset types
below.

<Columns cols={2}>
  <Card title="Timeseries Data" icon="diamonds-4" href="/datasets/types/timeseries" horizontal>
    Each data point is linked to a specific point in time. Common for satellite telemetry, or other time-based data.
    Supports efficient time-based queries.
  </Card>
  <Card title="Spatio-temporal Data" icon="earth-europe" href="/datasets/types/spatiotemporal" horizontal>
    Each data point is linked to a specific point in time and a location on the Earth's surface. Common for satellite
    imagery. Supports efficient time-based and spatially filtered queries.
  </Card>
</Columns>

## Dataset specific fields

Additionally, each dataset has a set of fields that are specific to that dataset. Fields are defined during dataset
creation. That way, all data points in a dataset are strongly typed and are validated during ingestion.
The required fields of the dataset type, as well as the custom fields specific to each dataset together make up the
**dataset schema**.

Once a **dataset schema** is defined, existing fields cannot be removed or edited as soon as data has been ingested into it.
You can always add new fields to a dataset, since all fields are always optional.

<Tip>
    The only exception to this rule are empty datasets. If you empty all collections in a dataset, you can freely
    edit the data schema, since no conflicts with existing data points can occur.
</Tip>

## Field types

When defining the data schema, you can specify each field's type. The following field types are supported.

### Primitives

| Type | Description | Example value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">string</span> | A string of characters of arbitrary length. | `Some string` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">int64</span> | A 64-bit signed integer. | `123` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">uint64</span> | A 64-bit unsigned integer. | `123` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">float64</span> | A 64-bit floating-point number. | `123.45` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">bool</span> | A boolean. | `true` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">bytes</span> | A sequence of arbitrary length bytes. | `0xAF1E28D4` |

### Time

| Type | Description | Example value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">Duration</span> | A signed, fixed-length span of time represented as a count of seconds and fractions of seconds at nanosecond resolution. See [Duration](https://protobuf.dev/reference/protobuf/google.protobuf/#duration) for more information. | `12s 345ms` |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">Timestamp</span> | A point in time, represented as seconds and fractions of seconds at nanosecond resolution in UTC Epoch time. See [Timestamp](https://protobuf.dev/reference/protobuf/google.protobuf/#timestamp) for more information. | `2023-05-17T14:30:00Z` |

### Identifier

| Type | Description | Example value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">UUID</span> | A [universally unique identifier (UUID)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier). | `126a2531-c98d-4e06-815a-34bc5b1228cc` |

### Geospatial

| Type | Description | Example value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| <span class="text-primary dark:text-primary-light font-mono font-semibold">Geometry</span> | Geospatial geometries of type Point, LineString, Polygon or MultiPolygon. | `POLYGON ((12.3 -5.4, 12.5 -5.4, ...))` |

### Arrays

Every type is also available as an array, allowing to ingest multiple values of the underlying type for each data point. The size of the array is flexible, and can be different for each data point.

## Listing datasets

You can use [your client instance](/datasets/introduction#creating-a-datasets-client) to access the datasets available to you. To list all available datasets, use the `datasets` method of the client.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from tilebox.datasets import Client

client = Client()
datasets = client.datasets()
print(datasets)
```
```go Go
package main

import (
  "context"
  "log"

  "github.com/tilebox/tilebox-go/datasets/v1"
)

func main() {
  ctx := context.Background()

  client := datasets.NewClient()

  allDatasets, err := client.Datasets.List(ctx)
  if err != nil {
    log.Fatalf("Failed to list datasets: %v", err)
  }

  for _, dataset := range allDatasets {
    log.Println(dataset)
  }
}
```
</CodeGroup>

```plaintext Output
open_data:
    asf:
        ers_sar: European Remote Sensing Satellite (ERS) Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) Granules
    copernicus:
        landsat8_oli_tirs: Landsat-8 is part of the long-running Landsat programme ...
        sentinel1_sar: The Sentinel-1 mission is the European Radar Observatory for the ...
        sentinel2_msi: Sentinel-2 is equipped with an optical instrument payload that samples ...
        sentinel3_olci: OLCI (Ocean and Land Colour Instrument) is an optical instrument used to ...
        ...
```

Once you have your dataset object, you can use it to [list the available collections](/datasets/concepts/collections) for the dataset.

<Tip>
  In python, if you're using an IDE or an interactive environment with auto-complete, you can use it on your client instance to discover the datasets available to you. Type `client.` and trigger auto-complete after the dot to do so.
</Tip>

## Creating / Updating a dataset

You can create a dataset using the [Tilebox Console](/guides/datasets/create) or by using one of the available [client SDKs](/sdks/introduction).

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from datetime import timedelta
from tilebox.datasets import Client
from tilebox.datasets.data.datasets import DatasetKind

client = Client()

dataset = client.create_or_update_dataset(
    DatasetKind.SPATIOTEMPORAL,
    "my_landsat8_oli_tirs",
    [
        {
            "name": "granule_name",
            "type": str,
            "description": "The name of the Landsat-8 granule.",
            "example_value": "LE07_L1TP_174061_20010913_20200917_02_T1",
        },
        {
            "name": "cloud_cover",
            "type": float,
            "description": "Cloud cover percentage",
            "example_value": "91",
        },
        {
            "name": "proj_shape",
            "type": list[int],
            "description": "Raster shape",
            "example_value": "[6971, 7801]",
        },
    ],
    name="Personal Landsat-8 catalog",
)
```
```go Go
dataset, err := client.Datasets.Create(ctx,
  datasets.KindSpatiotemporal,
  "my_landsat8_oli_tirs",
  "Personal Landsat-8 catalog",
  []datasets.Field{
    field.String("granule_name").Description("The name of the Earth View Granule").ExampleValue("20220830_185202_SN18_10N_552149_5297327"),
    field.Float64("cloud_cover").Description("Cloud cover percentage").ExampleValue("91"),
    field.Int64("proj_shape").Repeated().Description("Raster shape").ExampleValue("[6971, 7801]"),
  }
)
```
</CodeGroup>

This code will create a new catalog with 7 fields in total.
4 of those fields are auto-generated by choosing the spatio-temporal dataset type, and 3 (`granule_name`, `cloud_cover`, `proj_shape`) are custom fields that are defined.

<Tip>
  If a dataset with the same `code_name` already exists, it will be updated instead.
</Tip>

## Accessing a dataset

Each dataset has an automatically generated *slug* that can be used to access it. The *slug* is the name of the group, followed by a dot, followed by the dataset *code name*.
For example, the *slug* for the Sentinel-2 MSI dataset, which is part of the `open_data.copernicus` group, is `open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi`.

To access a dataset, use the `dataset` method of your client instance and pass the *slug* of the dataset as an argument.

<CodeGroup>
```python Python
from tilebox.datasets import Client

client = Client()
s2_msi_dataset = client.dataset("open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi")
```
```go Go
s2MsiDataset, err := client.Datasets.Get(ctx, "open_data.copernicus.sentinel2_msi")
```
</CodeGroup>

Once you have your dataset object, you can use it to [access available collections](/datasets/concepts/collections) for the dataset.

## Deleting a dataset

Datasets can be deleted through the [Tilebox Console](/console) by clicking the `Delete` button in the dataset page.

Empty datasets will be deleted right away. A dataset is considered empty if none of its collections contain any data points.

A non-empty dataset can also be deleted, but is a destructive operation.
Every data point in every collection of the dataset will be deleted.

As a safety measure, Tilebox soft-deletes the dataset for 7 days before permanently deleting it.
Please [get in touch](mailto:support@tilebox.com) if you deleted a dataset by accident and want to restore it.
